hey this is pressure Locker this problem
appeared in a UK maths competition
simplify and give your answer as an
integer for the following fraction the
numerator is the product of five terms
the first term is 10 factorial plus 9
factorial the second term is 8 factorial
plus 7 factorial the third term is 6
factorial plus 5 factorial the fourth
term is 4 factorial plus 3 factorial and
the final term is 2 factorial plus 1
factorial the denominator is the same
terms except each pair is a subtraction
so it starts out with 10 factorial minus
9 factorial and it ends with 2 factorial
minus 1 factorial if you're up for a
challenge I thought it would be fun to
extend this pattern all the way until
the largest number is 100 factorial can
you figure it out give these problems a
try and when you're ready keep watching
the video for the solution for a
positive number n factorial is equal to
the product of the whole numbers going
from 1 to n the factorial is a recursive
function in the sense that the product
of the numbers from 1 to n minus 1 is
equal to n minus 1 factorial so we can
also write that n factorial is equal to
n times n minus 1 factorial this will be
a useful form that we can use to
simplify the problem a general term in
the numerator is n factorial plus n
minus 1 factorial will rewrite n
factorial in terms of its recursive form
and now we have n minus 1 factorial
being common to both terms so we can
factor out n minus 1 factorial to get
that n factorial plus n minus 1
factorial
is equal to n minus 1 factorial times
the quantity n plus 1 a general term in
the denominator is n factorial minus n
minus 1 factorial we can use the same
approach and simplify this to the form
where we have n minus 1 factorial times
the quantity n minus 1 so let's use
these formulas to simplify this fraction
we'll look at the first term in the
numerator and denominator 10 factorial
plus 9 factorial can be simplified using
the formula for the sum and 10 factorial
minus 9 factorial can be simplified
using the formula for the difference the
numerator becomes 9 factorial times 11
and the denominator becomes 9 factorial
times 9 we can simplify the next term in
this fraction similarly we end up with
the numerator being 7 factorial times 9
and the denominator being 7 factorial
times 7 let's use these formulas and
simplify all the other terms in this
fraction we end up with a series of
products of factorials
and odd numbers there's gonna be a lot
of cancellations going on so let me just
focus on the factorials so that we can
make it very clear in the numerator I'll
bring all the factorials to the left
hand side and the same thing I'll do in
the denominator now you can very clearly
see in our fraction that all of these
factorials will cancel out for the
product of the odd numbers we have
almost all of them cancelling out except
we have one odd number of 11 remaining
in the numerator and the odd number of 1
remaining in the denominator so this all
simplifies to be exactly 11 now for the
challenge problem where you go up to a
hundred factorial I'm not going to go
through every single detail if you can
follow the same steps and use this
approach of
cancellation to get that the answer will
be 100 plus 1 which is 101 did you
figure out these problems thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel I make videos on math you can
catch me on my blog mind your decisions
you can follow on Facebook Google+ and
patreon you can catch me on social media
at pressure Locker and if you like this
video please check out my books there
are links in the video description